# syslog Input Plugin

The `in_syslog` Input plugin enables Fluentd to retrieve records via the
syslog protocol on UDP or TCP.


## Example Configuration

`in_syslog` is included in Fluentd's core. No additional installation
process is required.

``` {.CodeRay}
<source>
  @type syslog
  port 5140
  bind 0.0.0.0
  tag system
</source>
```
Please see the [Config File](/configuration/config-file.md) article for the basic
structure and syntax of the configuration file.

### Example Usage

The retrieved data is organized as follows. Fluentd's tag is generated
by the `tag` parameter (tag prefix), [facility
level](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Facility_Levels), and
[priority](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Severity_levels). The
record is parsed by the regexp
[here](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/blob/master/lib/fluent/plugin/in_syslog.rb#L25).

``` {.CodeRay}
tag = "#{@tag}.#{facility}.#{priority}"

record = {
  "pri": "0",
  "time": 1353436518,
  "host": "host",
  "ident": "ident",
  "pid": "12345",
  "message": "text"
}
```

## Parameters

### \@type (required)

The value must be `syslog`.

### tag (required)

The prefix of the tag. The tag itself is generated by the tag prefix,
[facility level](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Facility_Levels),
and [priority](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Severity_levels).

### port

The port to listen to. Default Value = 5140

### bind

The bind address to listen to. Default Value = 0.0.0.0 (all addresses)

### protocol\_type

The transport protocol used to receive logs. "udp" and "tcp" are
supported. "udp" by default.

### message\_length\_limit

The max bytes of syslog message. Default is `2048`. If you send larger
message, change this parameter.

### message\_format

This parameter is available since v0.12.33.

Specify protocol format. Supported values are `rfc3164`, `rfc5424` and
`auto`. Default is `rfc3164`. If your syslog uses `rfc5424`, use
`rfc5424` instead.\
Here is an example of message:

``` {.CodeRay}
# rfc3164
<6>Feb 28 12:00:00 192.168.0.1 fluentd[11111]: [error] Hello!
# rfc5424
<16>1 2017-02-28T12:00:00.009Z 192.168.0.1 fluentd - - - Hello!
```

`auto` is useful when `in_syslog` receives both `rfc3164` and `rfc5424`
message per source. `in_syslog` detects message format by using message
prefix and parse it.

### format

The format of the log. This option is used to parse non-standard syslog
formats using [parser plugins](/plugins/parser/parser-plugin-overview.md).

``` {.CodeRay}
<source>
  @type syslog
  tag system
  format FORMAT_PARAMETER
</source>
```

Your `format` regexp should not consider the 'priority' prefix of the
log. For example, if in\_syslog receives the log below:

``` {.CodeRay}
 <1>Feb 20 00:00:00 192.168.0.1 fluentd[11111]: [error] hogehoge
```

then the format parser receives the following log:

``` {.CodeRay}
 Feb 20 00:00:00 192.168.0.1 fluentd[11111]: [error] hogehoge
```

If the `format` parameter is missing, then the log data is assumed to
have the canonical syslog format (see with\_priority).

### with\_priority

This option matters only when `format` is absent. If `with_priority` is
true, then syslog messages are assumed to be prefixed with a priority
tag like "\<3\>". This option exists since some syslog daemons output
logs without the priority tag preceding the message body.

If you wish to parse syslog messages of arbitrary formats,
[in\_tcp](/plugins/input/in_tcp.md) or [in\_udp](/plugins/input/in_udp.md) are recommended.

### include\_source\_host

If true, add source host to event record. The default is `false`. This
is deprecated. Use `source_hostname_key`.

### source\_hostname\_key

The field name of the client's hostname. If set the value, the client's
hostname will be set to its key. The default is nil (no adding
hostname).

### priority\_key

The field name of the priority. If set the value, the priority will be
set to its key. The default is nil (no adding priority).

### facility\_key

The field name of the facility. If set the value, the facility will be
set to its key. The default is nil (no adding facility).

#### log\_level option

The `log_level` option allows the user to set different levels of
logging for each plugin. The supported log levels are: `fatal`, `error`,
`warn`, `info`, `debug`, and `trace`.

Please see the [logging article](/deployment/logging.md) for further details.

## TCP protocol and message delimiter

This plugin assumes `\n` for delimiter character between syslog messages
in one TCP connection. If you use syslog library in your application
with `protocol_type tcp`, add `\n` to your syslog message.\
See also [rfc6587](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6587#section-3.4.2).


------------------------------------------------------------------------

If this article is incorrect or outdated, or omits critical information,
please [let us know](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd-docs/issues?state=open).
[Fluentd](http://www.fluentd.org/) is a open source project under [Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)](https://cncf.io/). All components
are available under the Apache 2 License.
